Another thing I'd like to do is add an area rug in here kind of thrown down and at an angle.
So let's take a look at how we could use an alpha channel.
And over here in the unity materials we'll use the cut out rendering mode to create an area rug here.
All right.
So let's go back to blender and give that a shot.
Go ahead and take this television and let's move it over to the second layer so I'll just press and
click the second layer here and that puts it with all of the other objects here and I'll just begin
adding to this as I go.
So in a free layer Let's go ahead and create a polygon plain here and I'll scale it up just a bit.
So it kind of fits the kind of rug I want to use.
I'm going to scale it in the wind just a bit and scaled in the acts a little like this something like
that.
Now currently this is just one polygon if I hit the tab key and go into edit mode you can see that it's
just this one polygon and that's all it is.
When creating game assets of course the idea is to try and do it with as few polygons as possible the
more polygons in the level the more resources are used.
And that can slow the game down.
However for something like this I've found that objects with just one face in unity can cause problems
with seeing the texture on the objects so sometimes if you just have one polygon you can't see the texture
in unity.
So what I'll do is just hit the W key and subdivide it.
So we have now four polygons and that won't kill us.
That won't drag the game down or anything.
So now that we have that I will go ahead and press control a and click scale to apply the transforms
there.
Now let's go over to the editing screen.
Lay out I will tab into Edit Mode hit you and unwrap and there is our U.V. map.
So now that we have this let's go ahead and export out a U.V. map I'll just export out a map at say
2048 here and I'll put this in my textures folder and let's go ahead and call this Rugge.
I'll create a new folder for it as well.
And let's just call this Rugge underscore Uvas.
Here we go.
And now let's go take a look at it in Photoshop.
I'll get a file and open to open that up in Photoshop find it in my textures folder and here it is.
So there is the map.
I'll go ahead and open up a texture.
I found already here it is.
So I'm going to use this one here for the rug.
Now it has an alpha channel on it.
So here let me show you what I mean.
I'll open it up and you can see here that we can see through this part of the image.
I'll go ahead and select it all and copy it and bring it over here and paste it here.
Now it turns out this is pretty small.
So this one may not work.
I'm going to have to scale it up and I don't really like to do that but let's give it a try.
I'm going to scale this up because the more you scale things up the more you lose resolution in the
image.
But let's give it a try.
So I'm in a place this here over the U-V map over the U-V island.
I'll drag it down below so we can see it underneath the U-V wires.
So I'll turn off the movies and I'll export it out as a color map here in the rug folder I'll call it
Rugge underscore see for a color map.
Let's go ahead and export that object out to unity and see how it looks in unity.
So back in Blendr I'll tab back into object mode and I'll create a new material I'll call this rug and
I'll also change the name of the object and call it Rugge as well so they match.
So we can keep track of them in unity.
Let's also deal with the scale.
Now let me go back to the default view.
Bring back the layer with all of the furniture in it and let's shrink this down so it will fit into
the room a little better maybe something like this.
All right.
So I'll go ahead and make sure the scale is applied again with control a scale.
And now let's export it out file export FDX selected object.
Let's put it in the assets folder and we'll call this Roug and there it goes.
All right let's go to unity there's our object let's bring in that texture.
I'll go to a finder and let's bring that in.
Here it is Roug underscore see.
I'll bring that in.
And now if we take the rug object and drag it in here it is it's sitting right on the same plane as
the floor and therefore we're getting this strange kind of flickering and that's CSY fighting sense.
They're both on top of each other.
They're actually fighting each other as to which one is going to be seen on top.
We don't want that so let's raise this up just a bit.
And then let's take it and put it over here say like that.
All right.
Now in the material for the rug I'll take that to pure white.
I'll come into the textures folder and drag this into the Al-Bayda.
And now we can see it there.
And that looks pretty good except for the areas around the rug.
What this do is change the rendering mode from opaque to cut out.
And now that makes the outside of the rug clear.
So it's just the shape of the rug.
All right that looks pretty good.
Let's take that and kind of drag it over here maybe rotate it a bit like this so it just kind of looks
like it's been haphazardly placed.
I like to put things kind of at a strange angle because humans do that.
It's very easy in a computer program like blender or unity to put things on axis so we can you know
begin to kind of turn things a bit make them a little bit off axis so that they don't seem quite as
computer made.
We're giving our objects just a little bit of life here like the place has been lived in and pushed
around and things aren't quite lined up correctly and that and I kind of like that so we've got our
rug in here set up.
But I think it needs a little bit of texture a little bit of depth to it.
If we run the game let's take a look at how this looks.
Well I'm upside down.
If we come over here and take a look at this it looks pretty good but I think we can give it a little
bit of depth with something like a normal map.
Let's take a look at how we might do that if we go back into Photoshop we can generate a normal map
from here.
So this layer Let's call the color map and if I duplicate this with alt click and drag I can make this
when say the normal map.
And with this selected I'll come up here to filter three-D and generate normal map.
So if I click that it brings up this dialog window and you can see the preview of it here.
You can invert it invert the height here so if I click that you can see that these things now are pushed
out.
I can switch here to view it from object to say cube and we can take a look at it on a flat surface.
Click here to zoom in yeah something like that.
That looks pretty good.
So let's say we go with that click OK.
And there is our normal map now we didn't get any information behind here.
What I need to do is really put a black layer behind this like I have for other texture maps so let
me undo that and I'll create a new black layer behind here.
With the paint bucket and now I'll take these two layers.
Copy them.
Move them up and these two all collapse down with control or command E and we'll call this the normal
nap.
And now let's try that again.
I'll go to filter 3D and generate normal map.
There we go.
That's a little better.
All right.
So I'll say OK.
And there is our normal map.
Now let's export this out as well or go to a file export Export as.
And let's call this
Roug underscore in for normal map.
And there we go.
And let's go into unity and bring it in there.
So I'll bring up a Finder window grab that normal map drag it in.
And now if I select that rug and drag that normal map into the normal map slot of the rug material and
of course choose fix now to tag it as a normal map.
Now if we zoom in we should be able to see a little bit more of a texture to it a little bit more depth.
Let's go ahead and run the game and see what we can see.
So now if we come over here and take a look at it yeah we can see a little bit more texture to it.
We can also adjust the intensity of the normal map by clicking and dragging here and increasing this.
You can see we can really get some crazy texture going on there.
I don't think we need quite that much.
We can take it up to say three maybe and give that a try and I'll run the game again.
And let's take a look.
Yeah you can see a little bit more depth to it there.
That's pretty good.
If we wanted to do that for other textures as well say we wanted a little bit more depth and texture
to our floor here where we can go back to our Photoshop file of the floor texture and we can generate
a normal map from that.
So in here in the walls floor folder I've got that wood floor here that's just that seamless texture
there.
So let's go take a look at creating a normal map from this.
So here in Photoshop I've gone ahead and brought that up.
I'm going to double click on this layer over here and change it to a layer from a background.
And now I can take this layer and generate a normal map from this.
So if I come up here to filter 3D generate normal map you can see it here I'll switch to say a cube.
And that doesn't look too bad.
However I think I'd like to invert it.
I think that the parts or the seams between the board should be pushed in.
So I'm going to click invert here.
Yeah.
So those seams should be pushed in a click OK.
And there's our normal map and all exported out.
And now if we select that object in our material we can take that floor normal map drag it into the
normal slot and Click Fix.
Now to tag it as a normal map.
Now if we come down here and take a look at it we can see just a little bit you can see in here we're
getting a little bit of texture to that a little bit of bump.
Now it's already tiling itself just like the color map because we have the tiling at 10 here.
So the normal map is following along with that tiling we can increase the normal map a bit if we want
maybe a bit too much.
Well let's bring it down to say to see how that works.
And even maybe a bit too much as well but let's see let's run the game see how it looks.
Yeah that may be a bit too much.
So let's maybe take that back down to one again.
I'll go ahead and put that at 1 and let's run the game one more time
yeah so we're getting a little bit of bump there in the floor and that's good.
That's that's what we want.
So as we go and continue on with other objects in the scene we can create normal maps in Photoshop based
off of our color maps and bring them in here to unity and apply them to our materials.